https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-ann-async

### 1.6. Async Requests

[Compared to WebFlux](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-ann-async-vs-webflux)

Spring MVC has an extensive integration with Servlet 3.0 asynchronous request [processing](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-ann-async-processing):

Spring MVC与Servlet 3.0异步请求处理有广泛的集成：

- [`DeferredResult`](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-ann-async-deferredresult) and [`Callable`](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-ann-async-callable) return values in controller method provide basic support for a single asynchronous return value.
- Controllers can [stream](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-ann-async-http-streaming) multiple values including [SSE](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-ann-async-sse) and [raw data](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-ann-async-output-stream).
- Controllers can use reactive clients and return [reactive types](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-ann-async-reactive-types) for response handling.



#### 1.6.1. `DeferredResult`

[Compared to WebFlux](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-ann-async-vs-webflux)

Once the asynchronous request processing feature is [enabled](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-ann-async-configuration) in the Servlet container, controller methods can wrap any supported controller method return value with `DeferredResult`:

```java
@GetMapping("/quotes")
@ResponseBody
public DeferredResult<String> quotes() {
    DeferredResult<String> deferredResult = new DeferredResult<String>();
    // Save the deferredResult somewhere..
    return deferredResult;
}

// From some other thread...
deferredResult.setResult(data);
```

==The controller can produce the return value asynchronously, from a different thread, for example in response to an external event (JMS message), a scheduled task, or other.==



#### 1.6.2. `Callable`

[Compared to WebFlux](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-ann-async-vs-webflux)

A controller may also wrap any supported return value with `java.util.concurrent.Callable`:

```
@PostMapping
public Callable<String> processUpload(final MultipartFile file) {

    return new Callable<String>() {
        public String call() throws Exception {
            // ...
            return "someView";
        }
    };

}
```

==The return value will then be obtained by executing the the given task through the [configured](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-ann-async-configuration-spring-mvc) `TaskExecutor`.==

然后，通过配置的TaskExecutor执行给定任务，获得返回值



#### 1.6.3. 【重要】Processing（处理流程）

[Compared to WebFlux](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-ann-async-vs-webflux)

Here is a very concise overview of Servlet asynchronous request processing:

以下是Servlet异步请求处理的简要概述：

- A `ServletRequest` can be put in asynchronous mode by calling `request.startAsync()`. The main effect of doing so is that the Servlet, as well as any Filters, can exit but the response will remain open to allow processing to complete later.
- The call to `request.startAsync()` returns `AsyncContext` which can be used for further control over async processing. For example it provides the method `dispatch`, that is similar to a forward from the Servlet API except it allows an application to resume request processing on a Servlet container thread.
- The `ServletRequest` provides access to the current `DispatcherType` that can be used to distinguish between processing the initial request, an async dispatch, a forward, and other dispatcher types.

**<font color="red">`DeferredResult` processing:</font> DeferredResult流程**

- Controller returns a `DeferredResult` and saves it in some in-memory queue or list where it can be accessed.
- Spring MVC calls `request.startAsync()`.
- Meanwhile the `DispatcherServlet` and all configured Filter’s exit the request processing thread but the response remains open.
- The application sets the `DeferredResult` from some thread and Spring MVC dispatches the request back to the Servlet container.
- The `DispatcherServlet` is invoked again and processing resumes with the asynchronously produced return value.

**<font color="red">`Callable` processing:</font> Callable流程**

- Controller returns a `Callable`.
- Spring MVC calls `request.startAsync()` and submits the `Callable` to a `TaskExecutor` for processing in a separate thread.
- Meanwhile the `DispatcherServlet` and all Filter’s exit the Servlet container thread but the response remains open.
- Eventually the `Callable` produces a result and Spring MVC dispatches the request back to the Servlet container to complete processing.
- The `DispatcherServlet` is invoked again and processing resumes with the asynchronously produced return value from the `Callable`.

For further background and context you can also read [the blog posts](https://spring.io/blog/2012/05/07/spring-mvc-3-2-preview-introducing-servlet-3-async-support) that introduced asynchronous request processing support in Spring MVC 3.2.

[Appendix：Spring MVC 3.2 Preview Introducing Servlet 3, Async Support]([https://github.com/trust-freedom/spring-mvc-reference-learning/blob/master/5.0.12.RELEASE/1.%20Spring%20Web%20MVC/Appendix%EF%BC%9ASpring%20MVC%203.2%20Preview%20Introducing%20Servlet%203%2C%20Async%20Support.md](https://github.com/trust-freedom/spring-mvc-reference-learning/blob/master/5.0.12.RELEASE/1. Spring Web MVC/Appendix：Spring MVC 3.2 Preview Introducing Servlet 3%2C Async Support.md))

##### Exception handling（异常处理）

When using a `DeferredResult` you can choose whether to call `setResult` or `setErrorResult` with an exception. In both cases Spring MVC dispatches the request back to the Servlet container to complete processing. It is then treated either as if the controller method returned the given value, or as if it produced the given exception. The exception then goes through the regular exception handling mechanism, e.g. invoking `@ExceptionHandler` methods.

> 使用`DeferredResult#setResult()`设置正常运行后的结果，或者使用`DeferredResult#setErrorResult(Object result)`设置异常运行后的结果，可以是Exception或Throwable，这样异常就会被上抛
>
> 在这两种情况下，Spring MVC都会将请求发送回Servlet容器以完成处理
>
> 如果是异常结果，被上抛后可以通过`@ExceptionHandler`机制处理

When using `Callable`, similar processing logic follows. The main difference being that the result is returned from the `Callable`or an exception is raised by it.

> 使用`Callable`处理流程类似，主要不同的是由`Callable`返回正常运行后的结果，或者由`Callable`上抛异常

##### Interception（拦截）

`HandlerInterceptor`'s can also be `AsyncHandlerInterceptor` in order to receive the `afterConcurrentHandlingStarted` callback on the initial request that starts asynchronous processing instead of `postHandle` and `afterCompletion`.

> 想要拦截异步请求处理，可以实现`AsyncHandlerInerceptor#afterConcurrentHandlingStarted()`达到类似于使用`HandlerInterceptor`的 `postHandle()` 、`afterCompletion()`方法的效果

`HandlerInterceptor`'s can also register a `CallableProcessingInterceptor` or a `DeferredResultProcessingInterceptor` in order to integrate more deeply with the lifecycle of an asynchronous request for example to handle a timeout event. See [AsyncHandlerInterceptor](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/javadoc-api/org/springframework/web/servlet/AsyncHandlerInterceptor.html) for more details.

> 为了更深入地集成异步请求的生命周期，可以注册`CallableProcessingInterceptor`或`DeferredResultProcessingInterceptor` 

`DeferredResult` provides `onTimeout(Runnable)` and `onCompletion(Runnable)` callbacks. See the Javadoc of `DeferredResult` for more details. `Callable` can be substituted for `WebAsyncTask` that exposes additional methods for timeout and completion callbacks.

> `DeferredResult`提供了 `onTimeout(Runnable)` 和`onCompletion(Runnable)` 回调
>
> `Callable`可以被替换为`WebAsyncTask`，其可以额提供额外的“超时”和“完成”的回调

##### Compared to WebFlux（与WebFlux比较）

<font color="red">**简单总结上面**</font>

The Servlet API was originally built for making a single pass through the Filter-Servlet chain. Asynchronous request processing, added in Servlet 3.0, allows applications to exit the Filter-Servlet chain but leave the response open for further processing. The Spring MVC async support is built around that mechanism. When a controller returns a `DeferredResult`, the Filter-Servlet chain is exited and the Servlet container thread is released. Later when the `DeferredResult` is set, an ASYNC dispatch (to the same URL) is made during which the controller is mapped again but rather than invoking it, the `DeferredResult` value is used (as if the controller returned it) to resume processing.

> Servlet API最初是为了通过Filter-Servlet链进行单次传递而构建的。Servlet 3.0中添加的异步请求处理允许应用程序退出Filter-Servlet链，但保持响应打开以进行进一步处理。Spring MVC异步支持是围绕该机制构建的。当控制器返回DeferredResult时，将退出Filter-Servlet链并释放Servlet容器线程。稍后当设置DeferredResult时，会进行ASYNC调度（到同一URL），在此期间控制器再次映射，但不是调用它，而是使用DeferredResult值（就像控制器返回它一样）以恢复处理

By contrast Spring WebFlux is neither built on the Servlet API, nor does it need such an asynchronous request processing feature because it is asynchronous by design. Asynchronous handling is built into all framework contracts and is intrinsically supported through :: stages of request processing.

相比之下，Spring WebFlux既不是基于Servlet API构建的，也不需要这样的异步请求处理功能，因为它是异步设计的。异步处理内置于所有框架契约中，并通过::阶段的请求处理进行内在支持

From a programming model perspective, both Spring MVC and Spring WebFlux support asynchronous and [Reactive types](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-ann-async-reactive-types) as return values in controller methods. Spring MVC even supports streaming, including reactive back pressure. However individual writes to the response remain blocking (and performed on a separate thread) unlike WebFlux that relies on non-blocking I/O and does not need an extra thread for each write.

从编程模型的角度来看，Spring MVC和Spring WebFlux都支持异步和反应类型作为控制器方法中的返回值。Spring MVC甚至支持流媒体，包括反应性背压。但是，对响应的单独写入仍然阻塞（并在单独的线程上执行），而WebFlux依赖于非阻塞I / O，并且每次写入都不需要额外的线程

Another fundamental difference is that Spring MVC does not support asynchronous or reactive types in controller method arguments, e.g. `@RequestBody`, `@RequestPart`, and others, nor does it have any explicit support for asynchronous and reactive types as model attributes. Spring WebFlux does support all that.

另一个根本区别是Spring MVC不支持控制器方法参数中的异步或反应类型，例如：@RequestBody，@ RequestPart和其它，也没有明确支持异步和被动类型作为模型属性。Spring WebFlux确实支持所有这些



#### 1.6.4. HTTP Streaming

[Same in Spring WebFlux](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web-reactive.html#webflux-codecs-streaming)

`DeferredResult` and `Callable` can be used for a single asynchronous return value. What if you want to produce multiple asynchronous values and have those written to the response?

##### Objects

The `ResponseBodyEmitter` return value can be used to produce a stream of Objects, where each Object sent is serialized with an[HttpMessageConverter](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/integration.html#rest-message-conversion) and written to the response. For example:

```
@GetMapping("/events")
public ResponseBodyEmitter handle() {
    ResponseBodyEmitter emitter = new ResponseBodyEmitter();
    // Save the emitter somewhere..
    return emitter;
}

// In some other thread
emitter.send("Hello once");

// and again later on
emitter.send("Hello again");

// and done at some point
emitter.complete();
```

`ResponseBodyEmitter` can also be used as the body in a `ResponseEntity` allowing you to customize the status and headers of the response.

When an `emitter` throws an `IOException` (e.g. if the remote client went away) applications are not responsible for cleaning up the connection, and should not invoke `emitter.complete` or `emitter.completeWithError`. Instead the servlet container automatically initiates an `AsyncListener` error notification in which Spring MVC makes a `completeWithError` call, which in turn performs one a final ASYNC dispatch to the application during which Spring MVC invokes the configured exception resolvers and completes the request.

##### SSE

`SseEmitter` is a sub-class of `ResponseBodyEmitter` that provides support for [Server-Sent Events](https://www.w3.org/TR/eventsource/) where events sent from the server are formatted according to the W3C SSE specification. In order to produce an SSE stream from a controller simply return `SseEmitter`:

```
@GetMapping(path="/events", produces=MediaType.TEXT_EVENT_STREAM_VALUE)
public SseEmitter handle() {
    SseEmitter emitter = new SseEmitter();
    // Save the emitter somewhere..
    return emitter;
}

// In some other thread
emitter.send("Hello once");

// and again later on
emitter.send("Hello again");

// and done at some point
emitter.complete();
```

While SSE is the main option for streaming into browsers, note that Internet Explorer does not support Server-Sent Events. Consider using Spring’s [WebSocket messaging](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#websocket) with [SockJS fallback](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#websocket-fallback) transports (including SSE) that target a wide range of browsers.

Also see [previous section](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-ann-async-objects) for notes on exception handling.

##### Raw data

Sometimes it is useful to bypass message conversion and stream directly to the response `OutputStream` for example for a file download. Use the of the `StreamingResponseBody` return value type to do that:

```
@GetMapping("/download")
public StreamingResponseBody handle() {
    return new StreamingResponseBody() {
        @Override
        public void writeTo(OutputStream outputStream) throws IOException {
            // write...
        }
    };
}
```

`StreamingResponseBody` can be used as the body in a `ResponseEntity` allowing you to customize the status and headers of the response.



#### 1.6.5. Reactive types

[Same in Spring WebFlux](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web-reactive.html#webflux-codecs-streaming)

Spring MVC supports use of reactive client libraries in a controller (also read [Reactive Libraries](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web-reactive.html#webflux-reactive-libraries) in the WebFlux section). This includes the `WebClient` from `spring-webflux` and others, such as Spring Data reactive data repositories. In such scenarios, it is convenient to be able to return reactive types from the controller method.

Reactive return values are handled as follows:

- A single-value promise is adapted to, and similar to using `DeferredResult`. Examples include `Mono` (Reactor) or `Single`(RxJava).
- A multi-value stream, with a streaming media type such as `"application/stream+json"` or `"text/event-stream"`, is adapted to, and similar to using `ResponseBodyEmitter` or `SseEmitter`. Examples include `Flux` (Reactor) or `Observable` (RxJava). Applications can also return `Flux<ServerSentEvent>` or `Observable<ServerSentEvent>`.
- A multi-value stream, with any other media type (e.g. "application/json"), is adapted to, and similar to using `DeferredResult<List<?>>`.

|      | Spring MVC supports Reactor and RxJava through the [ReactiveAdapterRegistry](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/javadoc-api/org/springframework/core/ReactiveAdapterRegistry.html) from `spring-core` which allows it to adapt from multiple reactive libraries. |
| ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
|      |                                                              |

For streaming to the response, reactive back pressure is supported, but writes to the response are still blocking, and are executed on a separate thread through the [configured](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-ann-async-configuration-spring-mvc) `TaskExecutor` in order to avoid blocking the upstream source (e.g. a `Flux` returned from the `WebClient`). By default `SimpleAsyncTaskExecutor` is used for the blocking writes but that is not suitable under load. If you plan to stream with a reactive type, please use the [MVC config](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-ann-async-configuration-spring-mvc) to configure a task executor.



#### 1.6.6. Disconnects

[Same in Spring WebFlux](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web-reactive.html#webflux-codecs-streaming)

The Servlet API does not provide any notification when a remote client goes away. Therefore while streaming to the response, whether via [SseEmitter](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-ann-async-sse) or <<mvc-ann-async-reactive-types,reactive types>, it is important to send data periodically, since the write would fail if the client has disconnected. The send could take the form of an empty (comment-only) SSE event, or any other data that the other side would have to to interpret as a heartbeat and ignore.

Alternatively consider using web messaging solutions such as [STOMP over WebSocket](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#websocket-stomp) or WebSocket with [SockJS](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#websocket-fallback) that have a built-in heartbeat mechanism.



#### 1.6.7. Configuration（配置）

[Compared to WebFlux](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-ann-async-vs-webflux)

The async request processing feature must be enabled at the Servlet container level. The MVC config also exposes several options for asynchronous requests.

> 首先，在Servlet容器级别首先要支持和开启了异步请求，SpringMVC也有一些针对异步请求的配置项

##### Servlet container（Servlet容器级别配置）

Filter and Servlet declarations have an `asyncSupported` that needs to be set to true in order enable asynchronous request processing. In addition, Filter mappings should be declared to handle the ASYNC `javax.servlet.DispatchType`.

In Java configuration, when you use `AbstractAnnotationConfigDispatcherServletInitializer` to initialize the Servlet container, this is done automatically.

In `web.xml` configuration, add `<async-supported>true</async-supported>` to the `DispatcherServlet` and to `Filter` declarations, and also add `<dispatcher>ASYNC</dispatcher>` to filter mappings.

> 声明Filter和Servlet时需要设置`asyncSupported`为true，另外Filter mapping应该声明处理ASYNC异步的DispatchType
>
> 对于Java configuration：
>
> 在初始化Servlet容器时使用`AbstractAnnotationConfigDispatcherServletInitializer`，就会自动做上面这些
>
> 对于web.xml：
>
> 给DispatcherServlet 和 Filter 声明增加`<async-supported>true</async-supported>`，Filter mappings增加`<dispatcher>ASYNC</dispatcher>`

##### Spring MVC（SpringMVC级别配置）

The MVC config exposes options related to async request processing:

- Java config — use the `configureAsyncSupport` callback on `WebMvcConfigurer`.
- XML namespace — use the `<async-support>` element under `<mvc:annotation-driven>`.

You can configure the following:

- Default timeout value for async requests, which if not set, depends on the underlying Servlet container (e.g. 10 seconds on Tomcat).
- `AsyncTaskExecutor` to use for blocking writes when streaming with [Reactive types](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.12.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-ann-async-reactive-types), and also for executing `Callable`'s returned from controller methods. It is highly recommended to configure this property if you’re streaming with reactive types or have controller methods that return `Callable` since by default it is a `SimpleAsyncTaskExecutor`.
- `DeferredResultProcessingInterceptor`'s and `CallableProcessingInterceptor`'s.

Note that the default timeout value can also be set on a `DeferredResult`, `ResponseBodyEmitter` and `SseEmitter`. For a `Callable`, use `WebAsyncTask` to provide a timeout value.

